Grammar check with the 30k milestone (#6)
simpleanalytics/blog: _posts/2019-10-15-how-we-hit-our-30k-annual-recurring-revenue-milestone.md

## From park bench to Hacker News

In September 2018, Simple Analytics saw traction with [its launch on Product Hunt](https://www.producthunt.com/posts/simple-analytics). It ended up #3 of the day and later won the #3 of the Privacy Golden Kitten Award. I've worked on plenty of startups before, but this was my first public launch. It was the first day and I could see it soar/lift off!

Even more interesting, however, was the day after. When launching on [Hacker News](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=18024277) (from a bench in Amsterdam with [Joshua Voydik](https://twitter.com/joshuavoydik)) it really striked a chord. We reached the #1 spot within the first 5 minutes for at least 9 hours. Let the rollercoaster begin!

## Okay, and now what?

The traction was huge. Although initially, not in the ideal way. I offered a paid version from the start, but [Pieter Levels](https://twitter.com/levelsio) suggested via [WIP](https://wip.chat) to make it free for a while to get more users. I tried it, but chickened out because I got lots of signups for the free version and none for the paid version.

> The Hacker News launch got me my first 30 paying customers and around 800 Twitter followers (before the launch I had around 60). I knew I would be able to get more customers if I knew how to market.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Hacker News launch got me my first 30 paying customers and around 800 Twitter followers (before the launch I had around 60). I knew I would be able to get more customers if I knew how to do marketing.
```

Reviewer: I think marketing is a good word to use.

## Marketing... what's that?

Personally, it's easy for me to program and focus on that. But I also knew that my previous startups didn't make enough money and that wasn't because of the programming but more the lack of marketing effort.

This time, I set my goal of programming vs marketing to 50/50. In reality it turned out to be more like 75/25, but it's already way better than 100/0.

> Another good thing to realize is that you can build tools to help you with your marketing. Thats why I built a dashboard with all Twitter mentions and SEO keywords like "privacy analytics" "google analytics alternative", ....

Reviewer: It's not really SEO

```suggestion
Another good thing to realize is that you can build tools to help you with your marketing. Thats why I built a dashboard with all Twitter mentions and keywords like "privacy analytics" "google analytics alternative", ....
```

## The angles: privacy and simplicity

But hold up. A funny video won't earn you a place on the market, right? The analytics space is dominated by huge players. So the fact that Simple Analytics became a hit was unexpected.

> I stepped into a niche by picking two different perspective/standpoint that meant a lot to me: privacy and simplicity. The first has intrigued me since I started programming at the age of 15, and the latter is something that I got from my dad. They are rooted deeply in me and I think that's one of the reasons I will always be passionate about my startup.

Reviewer: I think angles is good to use.

```suggestion
I stepped into a niche by picking two different angles that meant a lot to me: privacy and simplicity. The first has intrigued me since I started programming at the age of 15, and the latter is something that I got from my dad. They are rooted deeply in me and I think that's one of the reasons I will always be passionate about my startup.
```

> The fact that those perspective/standpoint would help me tremendously in comparison with my competitors, was something I  unexpected. For example, Google who started getting a name for being to greedy for data they don't need was a blessing in disguise. Analytic companies have an urge to collect as much data they can, which usually comes with a horrible interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The fact that those angles would help me tremendously in comparison with my competitors, was something I  unexpected. For example, Google who started getting a name for being to greedy for data they don't need was a blessing in disguise. Analytic companies have an urge to collect as much data they can, which usually comes with a horrible interface.
```
